# jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter

# Spring Boot JWT Authentication Starter

The Spring Boot JWT Authentication Starter is a convenient way to add JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication to your Spring Boot applications. This starter package provides a custom filter and authentication provider that seamlessly integrate JWT authentication into your application. The starter provides sensible default configurations while allowing easy customization via the application properties and beans overriding.

## Installation

To include the Spring Boot JWT Authentication Starter in your project using JitPack, follow these steps:

1. Add the JitPack repository to your `pom.xml` file (for Maven) or `build.gradle` file (for Gradle):

   Maven:

   ```xml
   <repositories>
       <repository>
           <id>jitpack.io</id>
           <url>https://jitpack.io</url>
       </repository>
   </repositories>
   ```

   Gradle:

   ```groovy
   repositories {
       maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
   }
   ```

2. Add the Spring Boot JWT Authentication Starter dependency to your `pom.xml` file (for Maven) or `build.gradle` file (for Gradle):

   Maven:

   ```xml
   <dependency>
	    <groupId>com.github.Kravuar</groupId>
	    <artifactId>jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
	    <version>Tag</version>
	</dependency>
   ```

   Gradle:

   ```groovy
   dependencies {
	        implementation 'com.github.Kravuar:jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter:Tag'
	 }
   ```

## Configuration

To customize default configuration of the Spring Boot JWT Authentication Starter you could:
   
1. Configure the desired properties in your application.properties or application.yml file.

   General HTTP properties (jwt-auth.http):

   - `unauthenticatedServlets`: Specify servlet paths to be ignored by the JWT filter. By default, `["/auth/**"]` is ignored.

   JWT properties (jwt-auth.jwt):

   - `jwtStorageType`: Configure jwt storage type. By default, it is set to `"cookie"`.
   - `cookiePrefix`: Set the prefix for the JWT cookie. By default, it is set to `"Bearer_"`.
   - `issuer`: Define the issuer value for the JWT. By default, it is set to `"jwt-auth"`.
   - `httpOnly`: Specify whether the JWT cookies should be marked as HTTP-only. By default, it is set to `true`.
   - `authoritiesClaimName`: Set the name for the authorities claim in the JWT. By default, it is set to `"authorities"`.
   - `accessCookieName`: Define the name of the access JWT cookie. By default, it is set to `"access"`.
   - `accessCookiePath`: Set the path for the access JWT cookie. By default, it is set to `"/"`.
   - `refreshCookieName`: Define the name of the refresh JWT cookie. By default, it is set to `"refresh"`.
   - `refreshCookiePath`: Set the path for the refresh JWT cookie. By default, it is set to `"/auth/refresh"`.
   - `accessTokenExpiration`: Set the expiration time for the access JWT in seconds. By default, it is set to `300`.
   - `refreshTokenExpiration`: Set the expiration time for the refresh JWT in seconds. By default, it is set to `43200`.

2. Provide a custom bean of type Algorithm to be used for signing JWTs if you want to override the default RSA256 algorithm and autogenerated key pair with 2048 keysize.

3. Replace the default `JWTAuthFilter` bean with a custom bean of the corresponding type if you need additional customization.

4. Replace the default `PrincipalExtractor` bean with a custom bean of type PrincipalExtractor that will be used to extract principal into authentication object.
